Hello everyone and welcome to logistically Russian project solutions part 3 lecture video in the first
two sections part 1 and Part Two of the logistic regression project solutions walk through.
We went ahead and mainly cleaned our data and explored our data.
Finally in Perth 3 we're going to be focusing on training and building a logistic regression model.
Let's go ahead and jump to our studio and get started.
OK here we are our studio.
Go ahead and shift this a little over to the right.
It's finally time to start building our logistic regression model.
Remember a logistic regression is a type of classification model and in classification models we attempt
to predict the outcomes of categorical dependent variables.
In this case we are trying to predict whether someone makes more or less than $50000 a year.
That means the logistic regression we're using is based off of the logistic function which always takes
values between 0 and 1.
Let's go ahead and take a quick final look at the head of our adult data frame.
Looks like our income variable looks good.
We have region data hours per week.
And let's go in and check the structure of our data to make sure it's also okay.
All right.
Looks like ours is an integer we have factory levels where we need them.
Everything is looking ready to go.
Let's go ahead and clear the console and begin.
We want to do first is do a train test split.
We want to split the data into a training set and a testing set.
So I'm going to say train test split up more lines.
And the best way to do this is using the CAA tools library.
By the end of this course you're going to be super familiar of using the CA tools library for train
test split.
And this is going to be about the second or third time you've seen this library itself.
So go ahead and set the seeds to 101 if you want your splits to be exactly like mine.
First Step we import that library then we set a random seed to our results to make sure that the same
as mine that you're going to split up the sample going to create a variable called sample say sample
dot splits and you can pass in any column.
I always like to pass in the column we're trying to predict this case it's income and I'm going to go
ahead and say split ratio will say 0.7
and then we're going to have our training data we'll call it train and it will be the subset of adults
where samples equal to true are put in just the capital-T and then we have tests where these subset
of adults sample is equal to false and should be used equals for a quality here so it should be double
equal signs.
All right let's go ahead and run this and make sure it works out ok.
Looks like everything worked out.
The next thing I wanted you to do was just go ahead and call.
Help on G.L. em to explore the documentation of general linearized models documentation reading is always
a great idea especially once your first time working with a particular function are has great documentation
and the fact that it has a help window right here in our studio.
You could always be checking that out and reading it.
Once you've done that let's go ahead and use all the features to train a G.L. and model on the training
data set.
That means we're going to do the following.
We're going to say our model is equal to or assign the G.L. m function person income on to predict income
.
Put the tilt sign and then I put a period.
It's.
All the features to predict that I'm going to go ahead and say family is equal to binomial in this case
I can say whip's
link is equal to logic.
I can also just pass in logic by itself.
I could just say for instance you could also just say that if you want it to it's really up to you.
Whatever is more readable.
And then I'm going to go and say data is equal to train.
Since I'm just using my training set.
All right.
And that's training the model right now.
OK.
You'll probably notice this warning message.
All this warning message just saying is that the model was able to fit probabilities with a class of
0 percent or 100 percent chance of occurring.
Basically that means that for certain data points it predicted that it has a zero percent chance of
being over $50000 a year or a hundred percent chance of being over $50000 a year.
Don't worry too much since we're not dealing with a quote unquote very real large noisy data set this
is more of a toy set.
It is a related set but it's from 1996 and we've done enough to it to clean it up that it's not too
surprising that we get numerically zero or one.
You can go ahead and just ignore that warning for now if you're dealing with a real large noisy data
set and you get this warning message go ahead and just do a quick reality check and make sure that a
lot of your data points are 0 0 percent or 100 percent chance of occurring.
But other than that don't worry too much about this message.
It will probably show up quite often.
Or using logistic regression.
Go ahead and chuck a summary of the model so we can call summary model code expand this window a little
bit and check out the summary itself.
Notice that since we actually didn't split up education into less factor groups we have quite a few
features here under education that are three stars.
What might be interesting is to try to reduce the number of factory levels for education and try to
also reduce the number of factory levels for occupation.
You'll notice here that there's quite a bit of three stars or highly significant features.
So just keep that in mind.
It may be a good idea to go back this data set and make these into lower factor level numbers for features
themselves.
Again we solve a lot of features.
Some are important some not so much.
However our comes of a really awesome function called step and it looks like this going to clear the
console.
Now with this step function does is it really tries to remove predictive variables from the model in
an attempt to delete variables that do not significantly add to the fit.
And it uses an.
I see.
And that stands for the key key information criterion.
It was based off of a Japanese petitions work in the 1970s called hero to a kiki and he basically just
invented this criterion of AIC and this criterion allows us to compare different logistic regression
models and what the step function is going to do is basically try a bunch of different combinations
of the variable features in the logistic regression models and keep the ones that thinks are significant
.
Again if you recall back to that summer we just saw a lot of them or significant.
So it may be the case that even if we try the step function we will still get the exact same features
as important features in order to use step function we can go ahead and do say new step model and just
pass on your old model into the step function and you will slowly start to get AIC values for the various
combinations depending on how fast your computer is.
This may take a very long time and it'll take even longer if you have a ton of features to go through
.
You'll also probably get a bunch of warning messages about those fitted probabilities numerically zero
or one occurring.
Notice how I'm building off the different models right here.
So it's going to continue to build new models.
I'm going to go ahead and essentially fast forward to the end of this.
OK.
I went ahead and jumped to the step function being done.
This is what it looks like when your output of the step function is complete and what you can do to
go ahead and check all this is just going to clear this.
And you can call for a summary off of the new data step model or whatever the side of the coin you just
that model.
And this will show you what features that side keep and which the side of throw away.
You'll notice however in our particular case the step function decided to keep all the features we just
used.
And this is because we're using the AIC criteria to compare the various logistic regression models.
There's a lot of other criteria you could use this has do some math that's outside of the scope of this
course.
You can check out the notes and links for the Wikipedia pages describing things such as the variable
inflation factor of the I-F to explore other methods of comparing models to each other.
Let's go ahead and move on to create a confusion matrix off our predicted values or do this first.
We're going to need some particular values.
Let's go ahead and say test and we'll go ahead and say predicted income.
So I'm making a new column off the test and we're going to say it equals to predicts model my new data
is equal to test.
And then since I'm doing a classification I want the type to be a response and notice that you'll get
a warning message indicating that you have a rank deficient it don't worry about that too much right
now it may occur and that's just a warning that their predictions actually might be a little misleading
.
You can go ahead and check out the explanation in The Notebook and the stock exchange link for a more
thorough explanation of why that may be happening and why it may or may not actually affect your results
.
For now go ahead and just don't worry about that particular warning it's an error.
Just the warning and move on to creating the confusion matrix itself.
This case it's pretty easy.
You just call the column you were trying to predict.
We were trying to predict the income and then you put in test income and in this case whip's test predicted
income.
So the predictive values that are greater than 0.5.
And there is our confusion matrix.
Let's go ahead and get a few measurements off of this confusion matrix such as the accuracy of the model
number the accuracy of say a CCC or a CC.
Sorry one too many CS there.
That's going to go ahead and be equal to six thousand three hundred seventy two and you can review the
logistic regression lecture at the very beginning of this section for an overview of what the confusion
matrix looks like and that it's going to be over everything.
Basically we just want for accuracy measurements the true positives Plus the true negatives divided
by everything else which in this case is going to be all the other data points.
China's going to copy and paste there.
Let's go in and check out the accuracy.
Looks like we have an eighty four point six percent accuracy model.
Let's go ahead and calculate other metrics of performance such as recall going to go ahead and just
enter that.
Looks like we have a 97 percent recall in our precision.
We go ahead and check that is 93 percent.
So in your opinion was this a good model or a bad model was the final question.
And the other question was What other context would you like to know before answering that question
.
The correct answer is that given the information there is no real way to get a correct evaluation of
how good this model is.
What we need to know is the cost associated with accuracy precision and recall since we don't actually
know we are going to be using this model for now we're using the data for as a final product or process
.
We don't actually have a good opinion on whether or not this was a good model.
We'll have to do is figure out what is the cost associated with accuracy versus recall versus precision
because some models you are maybe trying to maximize recall or precision versus other models you're
trying to maximize accuracy.
Okay.
I hope that was helpful for you.
Go ahead and explore the notebook if you want more information on how to create the logistic regression
model.
But overall it's a pretty straightforward process.
You just do the train test split then call it g l n we go ahead and take a look at our history you can
see that but you just called G.L. and on your model and that will be it they'll create a logistic regression
model.
Hopefully you found this exercise useful and I will see you at the next lecture.
Thanks everyone.